all right let's change gears here on the
news hour today is of course dragon boat
festival celebrated by Chinese both in
the mainland and around the world
and our reporter one monk monk she's in
Hong Kong she's of course there to cover
the anniversary of Hong Kong's return to
the motherland she's she's gonna be
doing that over the next week today
though she's gonna be talking to us
about how Hong Kong is are celebrating
the Dragon Boat Festival thanks for
joining us on the news our Mong Mong I'm
told that in Hong Kong every district
has its own unique style of celebrating
the Dragon Boat Festival tell us first
of all where you are and what's so
unique about the festivities there
Bhagavan Kenya that I always actually a
really old fishing village it's located
to the southwest of the Hong Kong Island
about two hours drive from there yes and
Sokka and this area you're seeing is
located to the southwest of Hong Kong is
about two hours drive from there and
it's in fact one of the largest villages
on the small island and now you can see
that people are living in these stilt
houses some of them are really old ready
to collapse and others are nice new so
they've been living here for generations
and what happens today that calf is
fishermen from three different fishing
associations are holding this deities
parade activity and then there's going
to be a dragon boat race right after
that what happens to that before the day
of the actual festival these people will
borrow the deity statues from four
different temples along the waterway of
Taiyo and then they're going to put the
statues on the dragon boat to worship
and on the actual festival day and
they're going to put the statues on the
dragon boat and go through the waterway
for the people to worship and of course
as they go the residents living along
the waterway of Taiyo will burn paper
offerings - - to show the respect to the
gods
and here this
Ridge is the pathway most votes carrying
the deity statues and it can actually
open to allow the boats to come through
and in fact this the deities parade is a
very important cultural religious and
historical practice it's been said that
there was this plague back 100 years ago
and by doing such rituals here this is
the one of the deity schedules that
people are carrying and they're now
going to send them back to the temples
and back to where I was
this deities parade has been said has
been carrying very important cultural
and historical meanings and because the
significance was so so prominent that it
actually made to the list of China's
national intangible cultural heritage
and here this bridge is where the most
dragon boats and the ferry is carrying
the the deity statutes will pass and now
let's take a look inside the this fits
this place where all the old houses are
back at all right Hong Kong it is an
amazingly international diverse and
cosmopolitan city at the same time it is
uniquely Chinese so tell us how do Hong
Kongers use events like the Dragon Boat
Festival and the festivities surrounding
it to try and keep alive their link to
Chinese culture
was that this play that said the deities
parade is is an old ritual that was
dates back 100 years ago there was this
plague and by doing such ritual the
plague was gone but the custom has
remained ever since
and from these fishery products we can
see that people depend really heavily on
fishery on fishing but since many people
are now working the cities the the
fishing industry is no longer
flourishing here in tile
however from today's crowds we could see
that the the audience who are here to
watch the deities parade is a mixture of
the old people and the me and the young
people it's not a generational thing
there are just as many young people as
there are old people and of course in
the audience come from all over the
place the Hong Kong Island and also the
mainland and other parts of the world so
here this place carries a really
significant cultural meaning for
visitors who come to here to get a local
flavour and this the deities parade and
the lifestyle here is something that it
can only see in this part of the world
back at and my mom I'm just kind of
curious I mean you've been in Hong Kong
for a few days now and you've been
speaking them I'm assuming to young
people they're particularly those of the
so-called 80s generation I'm just
curious how do they view the Dragon Boat
Festival and other links in general to
Chinese culture do they see that as
relevant and thriving in their lives
well this is a really interesting
question I've been trying to figure out
how the younger generation think about
these this Hong Kong needs I tended to
really host for them so I've been asking
different people about these questions
and for them they are no longer very
very they're no longer very strict about
this the definition of this Hong Kong
knees and rather most of the time they
would they would identify themselves as
Chinese and of course one of our
cameramen working for our crew I was
asking how he thought about this Dragon
Boat Parade this race and he said well a
lot of people think it's interesting but
for me I'm showing limited interest on
this activity okay I'm sure it's going
to be an interesting day and an
interesting week ahead for you there so
enjoy your time in Hong Kong and we'll
touch base with one man Mong through the
course of the next week as she brings us
special stories and reports from the eye